# CS-340-Client-Server-Development-

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
To write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable, the first step is to write code that is easy to read. Easy-to-read code is code that is easier to guess what it’s going to do. Next, is to follow a convention. To make it simpler to understand and modify, code should be written in a consistent manner. If a language has a common standard, it should be adhered to and, if practical, checked automatically each time a file is saved. Another way is to give meaningful names to variables. Using descriptive variable names can greatly improve readability and comprehension. Writing small classes and functions will help the readability and adaptability of code. Lastly, Comments should add value to the code and not overcomplicate it. If comments are maintained current and provide justifications for why something was done in a certain manner, they bring a lot of value. Avoid making comments that are so long and ineffective since they will only contribute to chaos and confusion.

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
Approaching a problem as a computer scientist is no different from any other, Understanding the Problem, Designing a Solution, Implementing the Solution, and Checking the Solution. In the end, I also like to look back and evaluate the solution for improvements. Just because it worked doesn’t mean it can’t work better. In this project, we were given the starter code and then given the opportunity to modify it the way we wanted it. I think one of the best techniques or strategies to create databases to meet client requirements is to keep it simple to understand. Making sure all the client’s requirements are met and easy to use UI is key. Lastly, an efficient and optimized database for fast CRUD operations. 

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists use technology to solve problems and prepare for the future. A computer scientist is always formulating ideas on how to advance technology in sustainable and effective ways. Designing, implementing and measuring the effectiveness of computer-based systems, processes, components, or programs. The work on this project does just that, solve problems and prepare for the future. 
